#align
* Alignment

Emacs Speaks NONMEM aligns records based on the record name, and record type

** Record Indentation

By default a record is a hanging indent with a variable number of spaces based
on how many characters are record itself.  For example an =$INPUT= record may be
aligned differently based on if the record specification is =$INPUT= or =$INP=. For
=$INPUT= the hanging indent is 7 characters:

<src lang="esn">
$INPUT ID NUM DV TIME CMT CRCL WTKG RACE RIMP SEXF LBW IBW BSA SMOK TBIL ALT
       AST
</src>

For =$INP= the hanging indent is 5 characters:

<src lang="esn">
$INP ID NUM DV TIME CMT CRCL WTKG RACE RIMP SEXF LBW IBW BSA SMOK TBIL ALT
     AST
</src>

In addition there are records who do not follow this procedure (like =$PK=) -- they are
automatically indented to 2 characters.  Which records are only indented to two
characters may be customized in the Automation menu, under:

 - Changes While Editing
   - Alignment Options
     - Customize records not indented to record-length

There are also records that are not indented at all -- by default the =$TABLE=
record.  Which records are not indented may be changed in the
automation menu as well, under:

 - Changes While Editing
   - Alignment Options
     - Customize records with no indentation

Overall, this automatic record indentation may be toggled at:

 - Automation
   - Changes While Editing
     - Automatically indent


** $THETA/$OMEGA/$SIGMA alignment

Another option that Emacs Speaks NONMEM supports is the alignment of =$THETA=,
=$OMEGA=, and =$SIGMA= records.  In addition to the standard hanging indent, the
estimates are aligned by commas and semi-colons add continuity to the display of
the estimates.

For example, the =$THETA= record may be aligned as:

<src lang="esn">
$THETA (0,    30)       ; 1 -  Cl (L/hr)
       (0,    40)       ; 2 -  Vc (L)
       (-200, 0.1, 200) ; 3 - Cov1 (L)
</src>

The numbers are aligned in a column-like fashion.  The estimates themselves are
also aligned in a similar fashion.

Estimates for =$OMEGA= and =$SIGMA= records, are aligned at the "." point whether
present or assumed.  For example

<src lang="esn">
$OMEGA BLOCK(4)
     0                 ; 1 - BSV_Var1
      .0002 4          ; 2 - BSV_Var2
 20000    400.     3   ; 3 - BSV_Var3
     2       .0003 4 5 ; 4 - BSV_var4
</src>

This may be toggled at:

 - Automation
   - Changes While Editing
     - Align THETA,OMEGA & SIGMA

** $PK/$DES/$AES alignment
For code-based sections, indentation rules are automatically applied. The
comments are aligned, the code itself is aligned at the = sign (for the current
indentation level), and appropriate blocks (like =IF= ... =THEN=, =ENDIF=) are
indented, all without much user intervention.  An example of this is the $PK
block:

<src lang="esn">
$PK
  TVCL = THETA(1)          ; Clearance (Population)
  IF (RACE.EQ.1) THEN
    TVCL = TVCL + THETA(2) ; Shift for Race 1.
  ENDIF
  CL   = TVCL*DEXP(ETA(1)) ; Individual Clearance
</src>

Note that the alignment is based on the level of the variable, with the
exception of =IF= statements, for example:

<src lang="esn">
$PK
  TVCL = THETA(1)                       ; Clearance (Population)
  IF (RACE.EQ.1) TVCL = TVCL + THETA(2) ; Shift for Race 1.
  CL   = TVCL*DEXP(ETA(1))              ; Individual Clearance
</src>

Does not change the alignment, but a long variable changes the alignment:

<src lang="esn">
$PK
  TVCL       = THETA(1)
  THISISLONG = THETA(2)
  CL         = TVCL*DEXP(ETA(1))
</src>

This automatic alignment of equal signs and alignments may be toggled with the
menu:


 - Automation
   - Changes While Editing
     - Align Code at = and comments

When disabled, Emacs Speaks NONMEM only indents the blocks of code.

* Wrapping

One of the possible features of NONMEM is to automatically wrap NONMEM code at
the 80 character mark.  As an example the following =$INPUT= record has been typed.

<src lang="esn">
$INPUT ID NUM DV TIME CMT CRCL WTKG RACE RIMP SEXF LBW IBW BSA SMOK TBIL ALT
</src>

When automatic indentation is enabled, typing =AST= at the of the =$INPUT= field
gives the following automatic wrapping and indentation:

<src lang="esn">
$INPUT ID NUM DV TIME CMT CRCL WTKG RACE RIMP SEXF LBW IBW BSA SMOK TBIL ALT
       AST
</src>

When automatic indentation is disabled, typing =AST= at the end of the =$INPUT=
field wraps, but does not indent, as follows:

<src lang="esn">
$INPUT ID NUM DV TIME CMT CRCL WTKG RACE RIMP SEXF LBW IBW BSA SMOK TBIL ALT
AST
</src>

Wrapping may be toggled at:
 - Automation
   - Changes While Editing
     - Automatic Wrapping of Records



Some records are not wrapped by default (for example the =$PK= record).  Which
records may be customized in Emacs speaks NONMEM by the following menu:


 - Automation
   - Changes While Editing
     - Customize records not wrapped


