#title Hyperlinks
* Document Hyperlinks
When using Emacs Speaks NONMEM, Emacs can hyperlink input and output
to the appropriate files.  Currently the possible options for linking
are:
 - Output Files
 - Input Files
 - MSFO Files

Each of these features can be turned on or off.

[[#plt][Linking for control streams under PLT tools]] requires =grep=
to be installed.  Also under windows, if
[[http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/w32-browser.el][w32-browser]] is
present the link will open up the associated program.[1] Therefore if
your input file is a =csv= file, and =csv= files are associated with
Microsoft Excel, clicking on the input file will open that file in
Microsoft Excel.

** Output Files

Output files include =$TABLE= outputs, and FORTRAN OPEN(#,FILE='')
statements.

** Input Files

Input files are the =$DATA= statements

#msfo
** MSFO Files

=$ESTIMATE= records with an msfo file have a special link that:
 - Creates a copy of your control string in an empty buffer
 - Removes =$THETA=, =$OMEGA=, =$SIGMA=, and =$ESTIMATION= records.
 - Inserts a =$MSFI= record based on your msfo file.  This allows you
   create a control stream that:
   - Predict other datasets
   - Simulate other datasets
   - Resumes the model
   - etc.

** Included Files
Tools such as [[pirana][Pirana]], copy external files to the run directory using the
following syntax:

<src lang="esn">
;INCLUDE=file_to_be_copied_1.ext, file2.ext, file3
</src>

Emacs Speaks NONMEM will link to these files if the option is enabled.

** PLT tools
#plt

When =grep= is installed, and you are using PLT tools, clicking on the
=AllRecords.txt=, =FirstRecords.txt=, and =ExtraRecords.txt= looks through
the appropriate directories for files that match the current control
stream and takes the most recent =csv= and links to that =csv=.

Footnotes:
[1]  I also added code to use Xemacs' =mswindows-shell-execute=.  I
     really don't know if EsN runs on Xemacs still.

