#title PLT Tools

* PLT Tools Support
Requirements:
 - To run from emacs, Emacs must be installed in a directory without spaces.

Features not supported in PLT Tools-mode (PLT does not directly
support these features):

 - Splitting of variables into multiple runs to output over 20 or 50 =$PRED=
   generated variables is not supported when using the PLT tools.
   - When using the suggested =msfooutputfile=, PLT tools stores the =MSFO= in the
     =MISCELLANEOUS/MSFO= directory as =msfo.TIMESTAMP=.  This would require some
     way to get each =MSFO= file involved in the multiple-control stream run and
     then merging the tables together.
   - When specifying a different MSFO file, the =MSFO= file is retained in the
     working directory.  At first glance this may seem like merging together
     tables would be feasible.  However, when there are over 20 to 50 output
     items, EsN modifies the control stream to output slightly different table
     names.  Using PLT tools AllRecords and FirstRecords, files such as
     =AllRecords.txt~0= and =FirstRecords.txt~0= should be stored in the
     home-directory.  Therefore with multiple runs with over 20 or 50 items,
     these files would be overwritten.  However one run could be merged back to
     =AllRecords.txt= and =FirstRecords.txt=.  When this occurs, it would be in the
     working directory, and would not be created in PLT tools, nor stored within
     its system.  Therefore, all graphics of PLT tools would be unable to run,
     and the =AllRecords.txt= or =FirstRecords.txt= would not be stored in PLT's
     system automatically.
 - Does not support multiple all sub-problems control streams.  This
   is implied by having the same output file for every =$PROBLEM= in the
   control stream.

* Notes for Windows

This has only been tested on Windows.  The most recent version of PLT tools does
not launch correctly unless launched outside of Emacs.  One way to run PLT tools
is to associate =plta= files with PLT tools.  Afterward you may have Emacs "open"
the automation file instead of launching PLT tools and opening the file.  This
option may be toggled under windows.  It requires [[http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/w32-browser.el][w32-browser]] to be in the load
path.  This should be included in [[EmacsPortable][EmacsPortable]].

** Automatic Updating of AllRecords.txt and FirstRecords.txt

*** Time Dependent Parameters
The automatic updating of parameters assumes that each parameter is the same
throughout the subject.  If there are time-varying covariates, or inter-occasion
variability this does not hold true.  For these cases, manually move the
variable from the =FirstRecords.txt= to the =AllRecords.txt=.  Emacs Speaks NONMEM
will respect this, and not force the variable to be in =FirstRecords.txt= if the
variable is already in =AllRecords.txt=.

** Automatic PLT Tools Graphic Script Creation

Based on information in the file, including input variable specifications, and
variable labels, EsN generates a template graphic script that may be edited and
changed in PLT tools.  It assumes that your input file is your covariate file,
and fills out variable labels from the control stream.  Once saved in PLT tools,
Emacs Speaks NONMEM will not edit the script again.

** Commenting Records for Brief Summary document

<include file="plt-comments.muse">

This has been fixed in the most recent version of PLT tools.

** Emacs Speaks NONMEM's UserDefinedScript.R

** Links in PLT tools
Links in PLT tools require =grep= to be installed on the system.  It is installed
by default on max and unix systems.  It is also installed in the
[[EmacsPortable][EmacsPortable]] distribution.
